# Essay_on_Games_Evolution_and_Income_Distribution
The growing economic inequality in the last decades drew attention from society and the academy. The efforts to understand the issue created an ample body of knowledge. Here, we aimed to expand on the vast literature on inequality by combining tools from distinct disciplines in a novel way. We propose an evolutionary approach using an agent-based model that combines tools from Game Theory and Complex Systems. This method explores how individual characteristics affect the interactions between agents, how such interactions result in behavioral patterns, and how these patterns influence the population. Referring to the payoffs of each game as proxies for the individual's income, the model generates information about the process of income distribution considering individual characteristics, control of assets, interactions among individuals, and environmental conditions. Thus, providing a picture of the underlying mechanism of the distribution of income. This mechanism goes through three stages, characterized by three factors: individual characteristics, assets, and networks. Initially,  for a brief period, differences in individual characteristics result in an uneven distribution of income. With that uneven distribution, some agents can save and amass assets. The control of assets magnifies the initial inequality, splitting the agents into networks separated by wealth. Finally, these networks regulate the agents' possibilities of employing their abilities and assets in obtaining income. Savings and inheritance create a feedback mechanism that amplifies and maintains income inequality.
